Comments For The Authors [+ comments by JC]

• On page 1, I had not seen this property of the Weil pairing called
“Weil reciprocity” before.  Please check this is standard terminology.

JC: the fact that phi-hat is adjoint to phi w.r.t. the
Weil pairing is proved using Weil reciprocity, and that is what I
meant.  We could say instead "using standard properties of the Weil
pairing".

• Section 2 accounts for nearly half the paper, but only gets a brief
mention in the introduction.  If the results are too technical to
state in the introduction, perhaps you could give some of the examples
to motivate your work instead?

JC: we should add to the two "main objectives" listed
on page 3.  Also we could add, late in the introduction, a brief
symopsis of the contents of the following section.

• I found Section 2 (especially Lemma 2.4) much easier to read when I
realized that “condition (S)” is simply the condition that the image G
of the mod p Galois representation is not contained in a (split or
nonsplit) Cartan subgroup. This is easy to prove directly. Indeed for
the non-trivial implication, if h ∈ GL 2 (F p ) centralizes G, and det
h is not a square, then h is not a scalar matrix, and it has distinct
eigenvalues (in F p ). Then G is contained in the centralizer of h,
which is a Cartan subgroup. Proposition 1.1 (if still needed) is then
a corollary.

JC: Shall we replace our definition by the one suggested
(image not contained in a Cartan) and reword Prop 1.1 to give 3
equivalent conditions for this, the two we already do and also
(C) E[p] admits an antisymplectic automorphism

• On page 4, ”They may be found in [21]”. This reference only gives
  equations for the + case.

JC: Ref [21] (Rubin and Silverberg) only give equations for c4, c6 in the
+ case.   True: let see if both are in one of Fisher's papers.

• I suggest shortening Sections 2.1 and 2.2. The first few paragraphs
of Section 2.1 give useful background, and the numbered equations will
obviously be useful later on, but the discussion of one type of twist
being a special case of another seems overdone. Surely the usual
convention is that an elliptic curve is a quadratic twist of itself?
If the authors have a different convention then this should be
explained. The attempt to define the order of a twist is somewhat
unhelpful, since the definition given might depend on the choice of t.

JC: Currently under 3 pages.

    For 2.1: we can try replacing the entire paragraph in the quartic
twist section starting "As a special case" by just the first sentence,
and deleting Remark 2.1.  Under Sextic twists, delete from "which in
general" to the end of the paragraph except (perhaps?) for very short
mention that the sextic twist by u=d^3 is the same as a quadratic
twist by d.  And delete Remark 2.2.  But check first in case either
remark is referred to later. [Rmk 2.1 is referred to in the proof of
Cor.2.6.]

    For 2.2: I think we can leave this alone.

• The proof of Lemma 2.4 in the case j = 0 and p = 3 currently makes
no use of the hypotheses that E is p-congruent to a twist. This cannot
be correct, since if E/Q is the elliptic curve y 2 = x 3 + 1 then E[3]
satisfies condition (S), but is reducible. Also the sentence before
the lemma appears to ignore the possibility (condition (B) in
Proposition 1.1) that (S) is satisfied, but the image of Galois is
abelian. In the proof you could be a bit more explicit when you write
“contradicting (2.7)”, i.e. what is the contradiction? In the final
paragraph of the proof it might be worth highlighting the importance
of the assumption that p is odd.

JC: look into this later!

• The proof of (1) on page 10 seems to take an unnecessary excursion
via Frobenius elements.  Can’t you just take traces in (2.5) directly?

JC: I think this must refer to the proof on page 10 of part (1) of
Prop 2.5.  Yes, the first 6 lines + displays on page 10 do follow
immediately from (2.5) by taking traces.  We must have written this
proof out before stating (2.5) like this.

• In the proof of Corollary 2.6, and again before Example 2.18, you
quote a fact about the image of Galois for a CM elliptic curve with
good reduction. Could you give a reference for this?

JC: Serre?

• In the proof of Corollary 2.6, why do you want a cyclic isogeny? For
D / = 4 it seems the case-by-case computation could be replaced by the
observation that the order of discriminant √ −D contains −D and this
has norm D.

JC: OK, the suggested argument is simpler.  The isogeny from E to its
twist is the composite of the twist isomorphism and the endomorphism
\sqrt{-D}, which has degree N(\sqrt{-D})=D. I suppose that the point
of the extra detail that I worked out was just to show that \sqrt{-D}
was the only endomorphism which works.  Hence the last paragraph can
be deleted altogether, and in the one before we only need say
"... while for D\neq4 there is an isogeny of degree D from E to E^{-D}
obtained by composing the twist isomorphism with the endomorphism
\sqrt{-D}."  This leaves unexplained why this isogeny is defined over
Q (we could say "It is easy to see that this is defined over Q.")  And
we do refer to Remark 2.1 here!

• Paragraph before Lemma 2.8. In the first sentence I do not see the
conclusion that the image of Galois is cyclic. For example, it could
be C 2 × C 2 generated by −I and an antidiagonal matrix. Does “in our
context” mean “in the context of Proposition 2.5”?

JC: OK, we need a condition for this claim to be true.

• Theorem 2.9 allows p = 3, but refers in its statement to Proposition
2.5 which does not. You might consider re-wording Lemma 2.8 so that
you can refer to its statement rather than its proof.

JC: [I seem to remember that we kept on including and excluding p=3,
and we have been caught out.]  Looking back at Prop 2.5, we only need
to exclude p=3 in the sextic twist case since we want p to be
unramified in the CM field.  I suggest that we allow p>=3 in Prop 2.5
except when j=0?  Or in part (1) exclude sextic twists when p=3?
There seems to be no problem with the converse.

JC: At the end of the proof of Thm 2.9 we say "see the proof of Lemma
2.8".  We need to add a sentence at the end of the statement of Lemma
2.8.  What we need is that in the second case of that Lemma (N not
contained in PSL), precisely one of the C's is contained in PSL.  But
it is rather obvious that this is the case.  Perhaps we can just
delete the reference to the proof of Lemma 2.8? It was only the
previous page.

JC: !! No comments made between pages 13 and 20 !!

• At the top of page 20 you write “determine the symplectic type” and
towards the end of page 22 “by the results of Section 2”. The comment
about condition (S) in the case K = Q, which is made immediately
following Proposition 1.1, would surely be worth repeating somewhere
in Section 3.

JC: The suggestion is that we remind the reader that
Condition (S) is satified for all p>=7 over Q.  Fair enough.

We can insert "Note that, as remarked in the Introduction, Condition
(S) is satisfied for $p\ge7$ for all elliptic curves defined
over~$\Q$."  Perhaps in the last paragrah before subsection 3.1,
though that is after the phrase "determine the symplectic type" is
used (line 3 of p.20).  So perhaps better to put it on p.19 just
before "We first outline the steps..."?

• Proposition 3.4 is correct, but its proof is not. The problem is
with the claim in the second line of the proof that φ(D) = D. A
counterexample would be to take H = B and φ to be conjugation by a
generator for U . It might be helpful to note that the image of D in
PGL 2 (F p ) is cyclic, and start the proof by picking a generator for
that.

JC: proof needs fixing, the comment suggests how.

• In Proposition 3.5 and Theorem 3.6, why do you exclude p = 2?

JC: the case p=2 is trivially true, but our proof works fine for p=2
so we can just delete ">2" in the statement.

• The proof of Theorem 3.6 begins “Clearly”. One method would be to
check that all index p subgroups in H are conjugate. However the
comments on the next page about fields of definitions of isogenies
give a simpler proof. Perhaps these comments should be made sooner?

JC: One solution is to insert "unique" into "there is a field F" in
Prop 3.5, the proof being (as suggested) that all index p subgroups of
the image are conjugate.  (So we'll need to be concinved of that!).
Then the "Clearly..." at the start of the proof of Thm 3.6 can be
replaced by "By the uniqueness statement of Prop 3.5".

    The referee thinks that the argument on the next page is simpler,
but I am a little worried about using this p=7 argument in the general
case.  We would be saying that the preimage of j in X_0(p) consists of
p+1 points over Q-bar (OK: they are distict when j!=0,1728), including
one rational point together with a Galois orbit of size p.  The fact
that there is an orbit of size p follows from the *projective* image
having order divisible by p.  But I think this is a more complicated
argument?

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

Smaller Comments And Type Errors

• p1, standardize F^×_p and F^*_p .

JC: OK, I vote for *

• p2, Proposition 1.1, “or if and only if” → “equivalently if and only
if”. Second paragraph after the proof, “symplectic” → “symplectic
type”.

JC: OK*2

• p3, “in LMFDB” → “in the LMFDB”

JC: OK

• p4, Since in the statement of Frey-Mazur you specify p strictly
bigger than C, surely it is expected to hold for C = 17 (and not just C
= 18). Same comment at the bottom of page 27.

JC: OK, we need to check > vs. >= .

• p4, “of order multiple of p” → “of order p”

JC: OK

• p4, “not be useful in practice”. You could be more specific – is it
that the bounds are hard to compute, or end up being too large? Near
the top of the next page are “the bounds” on ell?

JC: (para. 4 of subsec. 1.2) -Nuno (for both)?

• p5, The second sentence of Section 2 is too vague to be helpful –
  “all types” in what sense?

JC: I'm sure we mean quartic and sextice twists, not just quadratic.
We could replace this with "In this sectionm, we consider all
congruences between twists." but in view of the section title, we
could also delete the sentence.

• p7, “This is most easily seen”. This is also easily seen by
considering the long exact sequence of 1 → μ 2 → μ 4 → μ 2 → 1.

JC: we'll be deleting this anyway, but it is clearly dangerous to ever
say "most easily"!

• p8, “twisting by the cocycle” → “by twisted by the cocycle”, “so
symplectic type” → “so the symplectic type”.

JC: OK ( but "by twisting by the cocycle") and OK

• p14, Lemma 2.13, “extending scalars to”. No need for the
star. Second line of proof, “∈” → “⊂”. 4th line of proof, what is not
a scalar?

JC: OK (delete *), OK, and ... obviously a Galois action is scalar if
it acts via scalar matrices!

• p14-15, standardize {3, 4, 6} and {4, 3, 6}.

JC: OK.   Which?  3 and 6 go together but perhaps the first looks better.

• p20, “Assume also B is large enough that p ∈ / L_B ”. If p ∈ L_B
then increasing B isn’t going to change this.

JC: ?! Perhaps we just say "Assume $p\notin \L_B".

• p21, “sizes between 2 and 76” and “sizes up to 80”. Why are these
  numbers different?

JC: I'll check -- probably 80 is right but 76 was right when the
conductors only went up to 400000.

• p28, “has to occurs” → “has to occur”

JC: OK.
