Revisions to "Global methods for the symplectic type of congruences
between elliptic curves" by John Cremona and Nuno Freitas

The authors would like to thank the referee for their careful reading
of the paper and constructive comments.  We detail here the revisions
we have made.  The revised version of the paper is almost exactly the
same length as the original.

Comments For The Authors

• On page 1, I had not seen this property of the Weil pairing called
“Weil reciprocity” before.  Please check this is standard terminology.

- We now say "using standard properties of the Weil pairing".

• Section 2 accounts for nearly half the paper, but only gets a brief
mention in the introduction.  If the results are too technical to
state in the introduction, perhaps you could give some of the examples
to motivate your work instead?

- We have expanded the Introduction as follows: there are now three
  objectives listed on page 3, one of which refers to the content of
  Section 2.  After listing these objectives we describe the main
  Theorems of that section, without going into details, but we do
  reformulate as a Theorem stated here in the Introduction as Theorem
  1.2 the main examples of congruences between higher twists over Q.

  We also state in the Introduction Theorem 1.3 (which used to be
  Theorem 4.1) about the Frey-Mazur conjecture.

• I found Section 2 (especially Lemma 2.4) much easier to read when I
realized that “condition (S)” is simply the condition that the image G
of the mod p Galois representation is not contained in a (split or
nonsplit) Cartan subgroup. This is easy to prove directly. Indeed for
the non-trivial implication, if h ∈ GL 2 (F p ) centralizes G, and det
h is not a square, then h is not a scalar matrix, and it has distinct
eigenvalues (in F p ). Then G is contained in the centralizer of h,
which is a Cartan subgroup. Proposition 1.1 (if still needed) is then
a corollary.

- On page 2, we now include this in Propositin 1.1 which now states
  that four conditions are equivalent (citing earlier work for
  details), and only define "Conditions (S)" after that.

• On page 4, ”They may be found in [21]”. This reference only gives
  equations for the + case.

- We have added further references at that point, including two papers
  of Fisher for the - case.

• I suggest shortening Sections 2.1 and 2.2. The first few paragraphs
of Section 2.1 give useful background, and the numbered equations will
obviously be useful later on, but the discussion of one type of twist
being a special case of another seems overdone. Surely the usual
convention is that an elliptic curve is a quadratic twist of itself?
If the authors have a different convention then this should be
explained. The attempt to define the order of a twist is somewhat
unhelpful, since the definition given might depend on the choice of t.

- Section 2.1 has been shortened as requested.

• The proof of Lemma 2.4 in the case j = 0 and p = 3 currently makes
no use of the hypotheses that E is p-congruent to a twist. This cannot
be correct, since if E/Q is the elliptic curve y 2 = x 3 + 1 then E[3]
satisfies condition (S), but is reducible. Also the sentence before
the lemma appears to ignore the possibility (condition (B) in
Proposition 1.1) that (S) is satisfied, but the image of Galois is
abelian. In the proof you could be a bit more explicit when you write
“contradicting (2.7)”, i.e. what is the contradiction? In the final
paragraph of the proof it might be worth highlighting the importance
of the assumption that p is odd.

- We have carefully considered the case of p=3 and adjusted several
  statements accordingly: in several places we still allow p=3 but
  only if j is not 0.

• The proof of (1) on page 10 seems to take an unnecessary excursion
via Frobenius elements.  Can’t you just take traces in (2.5) directly?

- Yes of course: we have shorted the proof accordingly.

• In the proof of Corollary 2.6, and again before Example 2.18, you
quote a fact about the image of Galois for a CM elliptic curve with
good reduction. Could you give a reference for this?

- We now cite a preprint of Zywina for the maximality of the image for
  CM curves when p does not divide the CM discriminant, except for
  discriminant -3 where the situation os more complicated.  The
  statement of Cor.2.5 now treats discriminant -3 as a special case as
  well as -4.

• In the proof of Corollary 2.6, why do you want a cyclic isogeny? For
D / = 4 it seems the case-by-case computation could be replaced by the
observation that the order of discriminant √ −D contains −D and this
has norm D.

- Yes, that is simpler, and the proof has thereby been shortened, at
  the expense of leaving to the reader the task of verifying that the
  isogeny defined is defined over Q.

• Paragraph before Lemma 2.8. In the first sentence I do not see the
conclusion that the image of Galois is cyclic. For example, it could
be C 2 × C 2 generated by −I and an antidiagonal matrix. Does “in our
context” mean “in the context of Proposition 2.5”?

- (This is now before Lemma 2.7) We have adjusted the statement
  accordingly.

• Theorem 2.9 allows p = 3, but refers in its statement to Proposition
2.5 which does not. You might consider re-wording Lemma 2.8 so that
you can refer to its statement rather than its proof.

- See previous comment regarding the case p=3: both this Theorem and
  the earlier result allow it but only when j is not 0.

• At the top of page 20 you write “determine the symplectic type” and
towards the end of page 22 “by the results of Section 2”. The comment
about condition (S) in the case K = Q, which is made immediately
following Proposition 1.1, would surely be worth repeating somewhere
in Section 3.

- We have added a reminder about this in the 3rd paragraph of Section3
  (page 19).

• Proposition 3.4 is correct, but its proof is not. The problem is
with the claim in the second line of the proof that φ(D) = D. A
counterexample would be to take H = B and φ to be conjugation by a
generator for U . It might be helpful to note that the image of D in
PGL 2 (F p ) is cyclic, and start the proof by picking a generator for
that.

- We have replaced the proof entirely with a more elementary one,
  which does make use of the cyclicity of D modulo scalars.

• In Proposition 3.5 and Theorem 3.6, why do you exclude p = 2?

- We no longer exclude it.

• The proof of Theorem 3.6 begins “Clearly”. One method would be to
check that all index p subgroups in H are conjugate. However the
comments on the next page about fields of definitions of isogenies
give a simpler proof. Perhaps these comments should be made sooner?

- Proposition 3.5 now includes a statement about uniqueness of the
  degree p extension field F, with a proof.  That is then used at the
  start of the proof concerned.

Smaller Comments And Type Errors

• p1, standardize F^×_p and F^*_p .

- Done.

• p2, Proposition 1.1, “or if and only if” → “equivalently if and only
if”. Second paragraph after the proof, “symplectic” → “symplectic
type”.

- Fixed.

• p3, “in LMFDB” → “in the LMFDB”

- Fixed.

• p4, Since in the statement of Frey-Mazur you specify p strictly
bigger than C, surely it is expected to hold for C = 17 (and not just C
= 18). Same comment at the bottom of page 27.

- We have made this consistent now.

• p4, “of order multiple of p” → “of order p”

- Fixed.

• p4, “not be useful in practice”. You could be more specific – is it
that the bounds are hard to compute, or end up being too large? Near
the top of the next page are “the bounds” on ell?

- Reworded.  (One can obtain bounds from Chebotarev, these would be
  impractical but in practice one finds suitable primes well below
  that bound.)

• p5, The second sentence of Section 2 is too vague to be helpful –
  “all types” in what sense?

- Reworded.

• p7, “This is most easily seen”. This is also easily seen by
considering the long exact sequence of 1 → μ 2 → μ 4 → μ 2 → 1.

- True; but this paragraph is mostly deleted now anyway.

• p8, “twisting by the cocycle” → “by twisted by the cocycle”, “so
symplectic type” → “so the symplectic type”.

- Fixed.

• p14, Lemma 2.13, “extending scalars to”. No need for the
star. Second line of proof, “∈” → “⊂”. 4th line of proof, what is not
a scalar?

- Fixed, fixed, and rewrded for clarity.

• p14-15, standardize {3, 4, 6} and {4, 3, 6}.

- We chose {3, 4, 6}, although 3 and 6 are most closely related.

• p20, “Assume also B is large enough that p ∈ / L_B ”. If p ∈ L_B
then increasing B isn’t going to change this.

- Reowrded.

• p21, “sizes between 2 and 76” and “sizes up to 80”. Why are these
  numbers different?

- 76 was right when the database only went up to conductor 400000;
  now changed to the correct 80.

• p28, “has to occurs” → “has to occur”

- Fixed.
