Notes on mod 7 isomorphisms (symplectic or antisymplectic): the
reducible case

Using (a_p mod 7 | first 30 primes over 400000) we find 255 sets of
isogeny classes of size >1 such that the mod-7 representations of all
curves in the classes in each set are reducible and appear to have
isomorphic semisimplifications.  In all cases this is rigorously
verified using Kraus's criterion.

Note that since we are working over Q:

(1) For each curve E in each of these isogeny classes there is a
unique 7-isogenous curve E' in the class; this is because for p>5, the
image of the mod-p representation is never contained in a split Cartan
subgroup, hence is contained in at most one Borel subgroup.

(2) the isogeny characters attached to E and E' are different; this is
because the determinant of the representation maps onto F_p^* so in
particular is not always a square mod p.

For each such set: we take one curve in each isogeny class and compute
the isogeny character (in fact, the field it cuts out, which is cyclic
of degree dividing 6).  If necessary we exchange each curve E with its
7-isogenous curve E', so that we have a list of curves whose isogeny
characters are identical.  Now for each curve in the list, the mod-7
representation has the form [\psi_1, *; 0, \psi_2]  with the same
characters \psi_j, but possibly different cocycles *.

The cocycles * are characterised as follows: the polynomial of degree
8 whose roots determine the 8 7-isogenous curves factors over Q as a
linear factor (corresponding to the isogeny from E to E') times an
irreducible factor of degree 7.  We have a Lemma which says that
(given the same characters \psi_1, \psi_2), two curves have the same *
and hence isomorphic mod-7 representations if and only if the
irreducible polynomials of degree 7 define isomorphic extensions of Q.

By computing the degree 7 polynomial for each curve E in the list we
partition the list into sublists such that the curves in each sublist
have isomorphic mod-7 representations.

Ignoring sublists of size 1,  we have a total of 337 lists of at least
two curves all of which have the same mod-7 representation.  These
lists have size 2, 3 or 4 (with multiplicities 276, 52 and 9).

The next step is to partition each of these lists into 2 parts such
that within each part the isomorphism is symplectic; the second part
may then be empty.  The possible subdivisions (up to order) are 2=2+0,
2=1+1; 3=3+0, 3=2+1; 4=4+0, 4=3+1, 4=2+2.  In practice, however the
only split for size 4 is 3+1.

NB so far we have only considered 2 curves in each isogeny class,
linked by 7-isogenies.  Several of the isogeny classes also admit 2-
or 3-isogenies (but not both) giving 4 curves in the class.  Since
2-isogenies induce symplectic isomorphisms and 3-isogenies admit
antisymplectic isomorphisms we can add these isogenous curves to the
lists in the appropriate part.

For comparison testing with Magma we output from this two files, one
of pairs (E1,E2) which are symplectically isomorphic and one of pairs
which are antisymplectically isomorphic.
